# ML-Methods-Case
A set of Jupyter Notebooks solutions for the regression and classification final case study in my class of Machine Learning - DAT-5303.

Each of the case studies had strict requirements based on high model performance, bias/ variance tradeoff, model run-time, and selected libraries. 

## About the case
Apprentice Chef, Inc. is an innovative company with a unique spin on cooking at home.
Developed for the busy professional that has little to no skills in the kitchen, they offer a wide
selection of daily-prepared gourmet meals delivered directly to your door. Each meal set takes at
most 30 minutes to finish cooking at home and also comes with Apprentice Chef's award-winning
disposable cookware (i.e. pots, pans, baking trays, and utensils), allowing for fast and easy
cleanup. Ordering meals is very easy given their user-friendly online platform and mobile app.

Regression Case:
- After three years serving customers across the San Francisco Bay Area, the executives at
Apprentice Chef have decided to take on an analytics project to better understand how much
revenue to expect from each customer within their first year of using their services. Thus, they
have hired you on a full-time contract to analyze their data, develop your top insights, and build a
machine learning model to predict revenue over the first year of each customer’s life cycle. They
have explained to you that for this project, they are not interested in a time series analysis and
instead would like to “keep things simple” by providing you with a dataset of aggregated
customer information.

Classification Case:
- In an effort to diversify their revenue stream, Apprentice Chef, Inc. has launched Halfway There,
a cross-selling promotion where subscribers receive a half bottle of wine from a local California
vineyard every Wednesday (halfway through the work week). The executives at Apprentice Chef
also believe this endeavor will create a competitive advantage based on its unique product
offering of hard to find local wines from smaller vineyards.
 Halfway There has been exclusively offered to all of the customers in the dataset you received,
 and the executives would like to promote this service to a wider audience. They have tasked you
 with analyzing their data, developing your top insights, and building a machine learning model to


## File Information
- Trigos_Gustavo_A1_Classification_Analysis.ipynb: Contains fully developed machine learning pipeline to classify cross-sell success to customers on a new promotion.
- Trigos_Gustavo_A1_Regression_Analysis.ipynb: Contains fully developed machine learning pipeline to estimate the total revenue generated by a customer within their first year in their lifecycle as a customer.
- Trigos_Gustavo_A3_Analysis_Report.ipynb: Contains brief 300 words executive summary of key insights and interpretation of both the regression and classification models, plus an appendix with the two final models selected. 

